Redis Prometheus V2 metrics (#2767)
DataDog/integrations-extras: redis_enterprise_prometheus/README.md

This integration works with on-premises and private cloud installations of [Redis Enterprise][1] using Prometheus metrics.
The integration provides metrics for four critical cluster components: clusters, databases, nodes, and shards. This allows you to monitor database throughput, memory utilization, CPU usage, connection counts, replication health, and a variety of additional metrics within Datadog.
You can use this information to understand the overall health of your Redis Enterprise clusters, diagnose application performance issues, and prevent downtime.

For a full list of supported metrics, see the [Metrics](#metrics) section below.

## Redis Enterprise Compatibility

The Redis Enterprise Prometheus integration provides support for the [V2](https://redis.io/docs/latest/integrate/prometheus-with-redis-enterprise/prometheus-metrics-definitions/) Redis Enterprise Software Metrics which are available in Redis Enterprise Software versions 7.8.0 and higher.

## Setup

### Installation

1. Run the following command to install the Agent integration:
   ```shell

>    datadog-agent integration install -t datadog-redis_enterprise_prometheus==2.0.1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   datadog-agent integration install -t datadog-redis_enterprise_prometheus==1.0.0
```

   ```

>    

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > **Note**: For containerized environments, see the [Datadog documentation page][9].
  
```

> 2. Configure the integration by setting the `openmetrics_endpoint` to your cluster's master node. See [Integration][2] for further information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Configure the integration by setting the `openmetrics_endpoint` to your cluster's master node. See the Configuration section below for more information.
```

3. [Restart][3] the agent.

### Configuration

Set the `openmetrics_endpoint` to point to your cluster. See the [example][4]. Leave `tls_verify` set to false.

There are two optional parameters: `extra_metrics` and `excluded_metrics`, as noted in the example configuration file.

> The extra_metrics parameter takes a list of metric groups. The following are the available groups: REDIS2.REPLICATION, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `extra_metrics` parameter takes a list of metric groups. The following are the available groups: REDIS2.REPLICATION, 
```

REDIS2.SHARDREPL, REDIS2.LDAP, REDIS2.NETWORK, REDIS2.MEMORY, REDIS2.X509, REDIS2.DISK, REDIS2.FILESYSTEM, REDIS2.PROCESS, REDIS2.PRESSURE, REDIS2.FLASH, REDIS2.SEARCH. The default metrics groups RDSE2.REDIS_CLUSTER, 
RDSE2.REDIS_DATABASE, RDSE2.REDIS_SHARD, RDSE2.REDIS_INFO, and RDSE2.REDIS_NODE are automatically inserted by the integration.

> The exclude_metrics parameter takes a list of individual metrics to exclude, meaning that this information will not be 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `exclude_metrics` parameter takes a list of individual metrics to exclude, meaning that this information will not be 
```

passed on to Datadog. The individual metrics should be stripped of their prefix, e.g., 'rdse2.generation' would 

> become 'generation'. The full list of metrics is available on the 'Data Collected' tab of the integration page, or via the link in the [Metrics](#metrics) section. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
become 'generation'. The full list of metrics is available on the Data Collected tab of the integration tile.
```

data for replication, LDAP, network, memory, X509 certificates, disk, filesystem, processes, pressure, flash storage, and search can be gathered; see the list in the [Configuration](#configuration) section.

### Metrics

See [metadata.csv][6] for a list of metrics provided by this integration.

### Service Checks

Redis Enterprise does not include any service checks.

### Events

Redis Enterprise does not include any events.

## Troubleshooting

Need help? Please contact [Redis Support][8].

[1]: https://redis.com/redis-enterprise-software/overview/
[2]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/getting_started/integrations/
[3]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/guide/agent-commands/#start-stop-and-restart-the-agent
[4]: https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-extras/blob/master/redis_enterprise_prometheus/datadog_checks/redis_enterprise_prometheus/data/conf.yaml.example
[5]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/guide/agent-commands/#agent-status-and-information
[6]: https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-extras/blob/master/redis_enterprise_prometheus/metadata.csv
[7]: mailto:field.engineers@redis.com

> [8]: https://redis.io/support/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[8]: https://redis.io/support/
[9]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/guide/use-community-integrations/?tab=containerized
```

# Agent Check: Redis Enterprise Prometheus

## Overview

> Redis is a fast, versatile data store that supports a variety of data structures, including strings, hashes, lists, sets, streams, and more. It also offers programmability, extensibility, persistence, clustering, and high availability. The community edition of Redis adds additional data models and capabilities, which include vector search, probabilistic data structures, JSON support, and full-text search.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Redis is a high-performance data store that supports a variety of data structures, including strings, hashes, lists, sets, streams, and more. It provides programmability, extensibility, persistence, clustering, and high availability. The community edition extends Redis with vector search, probabilistic data structures, JSON support, and full-text search capabilities.
```
Suggest to re-word for clarity

The integration provides metrics for four critical cluster components: clusters, databases, nodes, and shards. This allows you to monitor database throughput, memory utilization, CPU usage, connection counts, replication health, and a variety of additional metrics within Datadog. You can use this information to understand the overall health of your Redis Enterprise clusters, diagnose application performance issues, and prevent downtime.

For a full list of supported metrics, see the [Metrics](#metrics) section below.

### Redis Enterprise Compatibility

The Redis Enterprise Prometheus integration provides support for the [V2](https://redis.io/docs/latest/integrate/prometheus-with-redis-enterprise/prometheus-metrics-definitions/) Redis Enterprise Software Metrics which are available in Redis Enterprise Software versions 7.8.0 and higher. For older versions of Redis Enterprise Software, you may use the [Redis Enterprise](https://docs.datadoghq.com/integrations/redis-enterprise/) integration.

## Setup

### Installation

1. Run the following command to install the Agent integration:
   ```shell
   datadog-agent integration install -t datadog-redis_enterprise_prometheus==1.0.0
   ```

>     > **Note**: For containerized environments, see the [Datadog documentation page][9].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    > **Note**: For containerized environments, see the [documentation][9].
```

> 2. Configure the integration by setting the `openmetrics_endpoint` to your cluster's master node. See the Configuration section below for more information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Configure the integration by setting the `openmetrics_endpoint` to your cluster's master node. See the [configuration](#configuration) section for more information.
```
adding an anchor link will help here.

3. [Restart][3] the agent.

### Configuration

Set the `openmetrics_endpoint` to point to your cluster. See the [example][4]. Leave `tls_verify` set to false.

> There are two optional parameters: `extra_metrics` and `excluded_metrics`, as noted in the example configuration file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Two optional parameters are available, as shown in the example configuration file:
```

The `extra_metrics` parameter takes a list of metric groups. The following are the available groups: REDIS2.REPLICATION, 
REDIS2.SHARDREPL, REDIS2.LDAP, REDIS2.NETWORK, REDIS2.MEMORY, REDIS2.X509, REDIS2.DISK, REDIS2.FILESYSTEM, REDIS2.PROCESS, REDIS2.PRESSURE, REDIS2.FLASH, REDIS2.SEARCH. The default metrics groups RDSE2.REDIS_CLUSTER, 
RDSE2.REDIS_DATABASE, RDSE2.REDIS_SHARD, RDSE2.REDIS_INFO, and RDSE2.REDIS_NODE are automatically inserted by the integration.

The `exclude_metrics` parameter takes a list of individual metrics to exclude, meaning that this information will not be 
passed on to Datadog. The individual metrics should be stripped of their prefix, e.g., 'rdse2.generation' would 

> become 'generation'. The full list of metrics is available on the Data Collected tab of the integration tile.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

| REDIS2.LDAP              | rdse2.directory_           | LDAP directory service metrics                     |
| REDIS2.NETWORK           | rdse2.node_network_        | Network interface metrics                           |
| REDIS2.MEMORY            | rdse2.node_memory_         | Memory usage metrics                                |
| REDIS2.X509              | rdse2.x509_                | X509 certificate metrics                            |
| REDIS2.DISK              | rdse2.node_disk_           | Disk I/O metrics                                    |
| REDIS2.FILESYSTEM        | rdse2.node_filesystem_     | Filesystem usage metrics                            |
| REDIS2.PROCESS           | rdse2.node_processes_      | Process metrics                                     |
| REDIS2.PRESSURE          | rdse2.node_pressure_       | System pressure metrics                             |
| REDIS2.FLASH             | rdse2.node_*_flash         | Flash storage metrics                               |
| REDIS2.SEARCH            | rdse2.redis_server_search_ | RediSearch module metrics                           |

### Validation

> 1. Ensure you can ping the machine, particularly in a cloud environment. Run `wget --no-check-certificate <endpoint>` 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Ensure you can ping the host, particularly in a cloud environment. Run `wget --no-check-certificate <endpoint>` 
```
Is there a better word here that can be used? i.e. host or server ?

or `curl -k <endpoint>` to ensure that you can receive metrics.

2. Check the [status][5] of the Datadog agent.

## Data Collected

> The current release gathers all metrics for clusters, databases, nodes, and shards. By default, it collects metrics from the following groups: RDSE2.REDIS_CLUSTER, RDSE2.REDIS_DATABASE, RDSE2.REDIS_SHARD, RDSE2.REDIS_NODE, and RDSE2.REDIS_INFO. Optionally, via the extra_metrics parameter, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This release collects comprehensive metrics for clusters, databases, nodes, and shards. Default metric groups include RDSE2.REDIS_CLUSTER, RDSE2.REDIS_DATABASE, RDSE2.REDIS_SHARD, RDSE2.REDIS_NODE, and RDSE2.REDIS_INFO.

Use the `extra_metrics` parameter to collect additional data for replication, LDAP, network, memory, X509 certificates, disk, filesystem, processes, pressure, flash storage, and search. See the complete list in the [configuration](#configuration) section.
```

> data for replication, LDAP, network, memory, X509 certificates, disk, filesystem, processes, pressure, flash storage, and search can be gathered; see the list in the [Configuration](#configuration) section.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

### Metrics

See [metadata.csv][6] for a list of metrics provided by this integration.

### Service Checks

Redis Enterprise does not include any service checks.

### Events

Redis Enterprise does not include any events.

## Troubleshooting

Need help? Please contact [Redis Support][8].

[1]: https://redis.com/redis-enterprise-software/overview/
[2]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/getting_started/integrations/
[3]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/guide/agent-commands/#start-stop-and-restart-the-agent
[4]: https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-extras/blob/master/redis_enterprise_prometheus/datadog_checks/redis_enterprise_prometheus/data/conf.yaml.example
[5]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/guide/agent-commands/#agent-status-and-information
[6]: https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-extras/blob/master/redis_enterprise_prometheus/metadata.csv
[7]: mailto:field.engineers@redis.com
[8]: https://redis.io/support/

> [9]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/guide/use-community-integrations/?tab=containerized

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[9]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/guide/use-community-integrations/?tab=containerized
[10]: https://redis.io/docs/latest/integrate/prometheus-with-redis-enterprise/prometheus-metrics-definitions/
[11]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/integrations/redis-enterprise/
```
